So the forum for submitting comments was created.
Now we have to submit it somewhere because the action is not defined so let's create our Controller.
So let's run peach bee artisan make controller and create post comment controller.
We will also need our request class.
So let's create a request class.
Call it store comment.
So basically we did that before with our post controller where we created our store post class which
contained the validation rules for the data being sent.
Now let's define our route for this resource.
So this would be our resource controller.
We'll call it posts comments and the name would be post comment controller.
Same as the class name and we only want root for the store matter.
Now by the way this resource pose doesn't have to be slash posts.
It can be just posts.
Now let's clear the screen and run Peach Pit artisan the route least to see the routes that we have
so you can see that the for the post route for the posts resource we get the routes properly defined
as it was before but now for our posts comments we got a new route only one and it is both slash post
I.D. slash comments and the route name esports posts dot comments dot star.
Now we created our specific controller for comments associated with post because comments can only be
basically added for an existing blog post and then you probably would only read comments for our particular
blog post or at least return them from their controller.
So let's open this new controller post comment controller defined those actions that we need which is
store so we won't need separate action for displaying the forum as the forum is displayed on the blog
post itself and we only need to save it.
So the argument to that is store.
Comment mind that you are.
You have that use use statement.
And the argument name is.
Request now save the changes and now let's go to the store.
Comments.
So we have to define some validation rules since we only have content.
That's enough.
We'll have to check if this is present.
So we are the required validator and let's say the minimum text of the comments should be five characters.
Also let's return True from outer rise as this is did remaining.
If the user is outraged to make this request so let's allow for everyone because we will require authorization
anyway we will do that inside the controller.
Inside constructor
so will the middleware the alpha middleware and applied only to the store method.
This way users have to be authenticated before they can send anything to this action.
Now we have added this controller as a basically sub resource of the posts so our view as you've seen
on the route.
We have the post argument added to the route and what I will show you now is called the route model
building.
Now how the route model building works is basically similar to what we had inside the post controller
where the route had a parameter called Post.
But in this case it didn't matter we could call it I.D. but then we used find or fail to fetch a blog
post with the given I.D. so that was the route model binding does instead is start if you will add an
argument to your action which is type printed which means you specify the type of the object passed
in our case.
This would be blog post and also the name of the parameter to your action matches the name of the route
parameter.
In this case this is the post what lot of ill will do is it will essentially call the find or fail on
the block post model so it will fetch us for us.
So the difference is that you do not have to do that explicitly as we did here.
So in this case we needed to do some more things we wanted to add some cash so this wasn't the best
use case for route model binding.
But in this case we just want to save some comments to the actual blog post.
So it's a perfect scenario for using the route model binding.
Now since we have a blog post we can add comments to eat using the comments relation because we can
do it by calling the comment create method and passing an array of data of attributes of that model
but instead we can also call the create model on the relation itself.
So this is actually called Post.
Now you only have to specify an array of the comment attributes and what we need to add is the user
I.D. and the content because the blog post idea would be ultimately assigned since we are using the
create on the relations so we.
It already knows to which blog post it has to add this comment.
Now before we do that we have to make some of the fields on the comment model mass assign a all by defining
fear level attributes on the comment.
We did the same on the blog post.
If you remember so this is how you define attributes which are mass assign a.
So we need user I.D. and we need content save the changes and go back to the controller.
So first will assign content since we are using the store.
Comments request which will already validate the data or if the data is invalid it will just return
back to the last page with the error is variable populate it which you can then access inside the forum.
We can read this value using request input method
and the field name is content and then the user i.e. can also be fetched from the request because it
has are user method which will return the currently authenticated user and it has an idea field.
I have misspelled the name.
OK.
This will basically save the comment to a blog post.
Now inside the blog post store method.
We also add a flash message.
So let's do the same for the comments.
We can pay start to request session Flash will are the status message Let's rename it the comment was
created.
And finally will redirect back to the blog post page.
So let's use the redirect helper method but this time instead of specifying the route we'll just use
the back method and what that does it will.
It will just redirect you back to the last page you were on.
OK so before we continue and test out there is also something we have to do now on the blog post when
it changed to We removed a cache element because blog posts are cached on the when we are displaying
a blog post but I forgot to add this tax goal and you actually have to do that when you store items
that are tagged you have to provide.
Also the same list of tags when you are forgetting them.
So here we have to add tags some blog post and only then are called to forget by the way we can also
remove this cache element when the blog post is deleted and now we'll have to do the same on the comment.
So for simplicity let just copy this updating event and update on the comment model.
But this time it will be creating
in this case we do not have a blog post.
We have a comment so we can also clear the cache here for the using the blog post stock and here will
use the comment model and it is.
It contains blog post I I.D. attribute so that way we will immediately see this comment because otherwise
it would be cached here.
Now finally before we test out we have to add our root to the forum so it didn't have an action.
So now let's use a root.
Let's check what our root name was.
So it was posts comments.
Store.
We can paste it here.
And we also need an argument for this post route parameter so posts can be read from the post variable
post I.D. And we have this post variable available here because this forum is always included on the
show template of their posts and there is the post variable there.
And when you include a template older included templates inherit all the data that was available to
the parent view so say the changes refresh this page
so the form would be updated with the correct action.
And let's test this.
So this is r comment.
Now when you press up comment well it should work.
But first we have to fix the problem and inside the controller.
The Post Comment.
Action.
I forgot to add an import for the blog post so you need to add it here.
This happens to me all the time so don't worry if you forget it sometime.
Okay.
Now save the changes and we can refresh this request because it will read sanded so let's wait a little
while and then we should see the comment added and well voila it is out there.
This is a comment you can even add one more.
This is another comment no mind that if you will Art more and more comments there is another cash element
that might be out of date and this is actually the most comment at least of the blog posts.
So now we are storing this.
If you remember we are storing it inside the view composer so it is stored under the most commented
key name so we'll have to forget this key.
Also when we are adding a comment so we have to use the list of tax and file the key name is just most
commented.
Now we have to reset that in case we will add a lot of comments and then this post will become most
commented then it has to be shown here.
Now the final step would be to check if the errors are shown when we submit the comments form without
specifying any comment at all.
So let's press our comment and you can see that nothing was added but we also don't see any error and
this is because we haven't added errors component on the underscore form template for the comments.
So let's do that now.
Eating after just out errors and and errors directive.
So now if you will submit empty box you see that the content field is required or if the comments are
too short.
You also see the error message now in the next lecture.
We will do some optimizations to our application and you will also learn how you can fetch are deeply
nested relationships.